---
title: "Espinoza & immateriality of mind."
date: "2020-23-11"
draft: true
---

Following from the Greeks, through Espinoza to modern pan-humanism, a sure-fire bet in life is that an individual is physical & mental. Therefore, it is safe to presume that the human flavor of intelligence is the effect of the synchronic evolutionary morphology of our terminally expanding brain [Aboitiz, Tucker, Givon].

Since Einstein's universal synthesis of physics and mathematics, science has grown exponentially. Yet, in his quest for global and now extraterrestrial dominance _, Man_ has woefully failed to reconcile his myopic anthropocentric perspective on his domain, reality (//R)

In an epic quest for domination _Man,_ has gone to great lengths to stack the odds in favor of what is now endemic glocal inequality. Perhaps it's by virtue of being an apex predator, but in the haze of our collective myopia, we have hammered out science and religion in unruly parabolic haste. In haste, laws, and axioms that not only supersede, but simply put, just do not jive with the doctrines of religious dogma. This is important to understand because in a majority of the--lesser developed--world, religion is the basis of formal education. And look where that got us: empires still piling up in Afghanistan. So if I am committing to giving an unequivocal account of human intelligence, then it is imperative to consider the apparent friction between the enterprise of science and religion.

The friction between scientific rigor and religious belief is the source of countless episodes of trauma and calamity throughout the human story. And although I can claim a modicum of scientific expertise in neuroscience and cognition, I have next to little knowledge and even less patience regarding religion, i.e., religion as thinking and rituals presupposing an omnipresence manifesting as dogma. For too long _Man_ has pretended and played with God while leaving behind his Earthly family on the road to the proverbial kingdom of heaven. To level the playing field between science and religion, and by proxy human genders equitably, I am suggesting simple ground truths: a straight line from elementary geometry and the vacuous sky above. Not equal pay, BLM, trans rights, or glass ceilings, these are all _a priori_ givens, except for the latter. For this purpose, I am defining gender equality as points _a_ and _b_ connected by the shortest segmental plane of spacetime. As such, gender equality assumes freely roaming or volitional locomotion as expounded by neurologist [R. Llinus], breathing --in terms of the Kreb Cycle and not general-purpose persecution.

Fundamentally two points {_a_, _b_} connected by an idiosyncratic _animus_ along the shortest tangible segment of spacetime. Simply put, this _animus_ or the corpus of human behaviors is the product of stochastic evolutionary processes like Darwinian NS for selfish [Dawkins] genomic information. One important caveat, to abide by universal thermodynamic laws: natural selection for the male and female human _qualias_ --logical extension of Dennett's definition--necessitates sexual reproduction for species propagation. Therefore, by evolutionary pressure and contemporaneous societal demands for equity, assume that human gender is on a biophysical spectrum. But a spectrum of what you say? TBC...[unified _scientific_ theory of _Man_]. For now, suffice to say that for continuing propagation thus far, Human DNA as elegantly demonstrated by sister [DNA lady] involves all the quantum cray cray of subatomic spacetime.

, albeit a very short manifolding of spacetime. Yet, ever since the Copernican revolution _Man_ has focused energy and amortized everything short of galactic debris to appease his: vanity.

   _Today_ is probably amongst just a handful of things every man, woman, and child on Earth agree on, thus requires an accurate description of daily habits and survival. Such an explanation must assume nothing less than mathematical equality. We shall start with something the universe agrees on, a line: the shortest path between any two points on a plane.
